Cloud computing services:
- Storage
- Compute power
- Networking
- Analytics
- and more...

Scalability: The ability to scale. So allocate and deallocate resources at any time
Elasticity: The ability to scale dynamically. 
Agility: The ability to react fast (scale quickly)
Fault tolerance: the design principles to recover from natural or human disasters. 
High availability: The agreed level of operational uptime for the system. 

Economies of scale: The cost per unit (service) lowers as the size of the requests grows.
	Dus wanneer je in bulk besteld, krijg je korting t.o.v. een kleine bestelling.

CapEx: Own infrastructure. Big initial investment. 
OpEx: Rent infrastructure. No initial investment.

Consumption based model:
- no upfront costs
- no wasted resources

Cloud provider can provide:
	Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
	- Storage (ssd), networking (routers switches, internet), servers (memory, motherboard, cpu), virtualization (VM)
	Platform as a Service (PaaS)
	- OS (windows, linux), middleware (software), runtime (docker, iis)
	Software as a Service (SaaS)
	- Application Data (data, apps)

Public cloud: Everything runs on cloud providers hardware. Some services share hardware with other customers.
Private cloud: Everything runs on your own datacenter. You maintain the hardware. 
Hybrid cloud: Combines public and private. 

Data center: 
 - Physical facility
 - Hosting for group of networked servers
Region:
- Geographical area
- Usually more datacenters
Availability Zone:
- Regional feature
- Designed to protect from data center failures
Region Pair:
- Each region is paired with another region
- Physical isolation with at least 300 miles distance

Azure resources:
- Object used to manage services in Azure
- Represents service lifecycle
- Saved as JSON definition
- Each resource must be in one, and only one resource group
Resource Groups:
- Grouping resources
Resource manager:
- Management layer for all resources and resource groups

Virtual Machines (IaaS):
- Custom software, custom requirements, very specialized, high degree of control
VM Scale Sets (IaaS):
- Auto-scaled workload for VMs
Container Instances(Paas):
- Simple container hosting, easy to start
Kubernetes Services(PaaS):
- Highly scalable and customizable container hosting platform
App Services (PaaS):
- Web apps, a lot of enterprise web hosting features, easy to start.
Azure Functions(Paas | Function as a Service | Serverless):
- micro services, consumption based pricing, easy to start

Azure Networking Services:
Virtual Network: Representation of physical networking in the cloud. Allows for grouping filtering and segmentation of network related resources.
VPN Gateway: Connecting on-premise with the Virtual Network and Virtual Networks with each other. 
Load Balancer: Even traffic distribution for non-HTTP (no web) traffic
Application Gateway: Even traffic distribution for HTTP (web) traffic
Content Delivery Network: Global content caching and distribution to offload web applications and reduce latency

Storage Services:
BLOB Storage: Binary Large OBject - file (not structured)
Queue Storage: Small service for storing message for asynchronous processing
Table Storage: semi-structured data (NoSQL) - no relations between data. Design for fast access
File Storage: Almost same as BLOB. 

Cosmos DB: NoSQL (semi-structured data) DB service. Designed for highly responsive (real time) apps
SQL DB: Structured data. 
